wiki/1

§ Laser Force

⸺ by Charles Iliya Krempeaux

**Laser Force** is a vintage toy-line from the 1980s.

The **Laser Force** toy line consists of (toy) **vehicles** and **action figures** all in the **3¾ inch scale**.

The **Laser Force** toy line (toy) vehicles are in a seemingly vintage futuristic sci-fi style.
And would fit in with many of the 1970s &amp; 1980s sci-fi toy lines.
Sci-Fi focused on stories that (at least in part) took place in outer-space and on other planets (other than Earth) were very popular during that era.

The **action figures** are **5-points-of-articulation** (**5PA**) style figures.

The (toy) **vehicles** seemed to be the focus of the **Laser Force** toy line.
Children seemed to often use **Laser Force** vehicles with other //compatible// toy lines.

The **Laser Force** toy line were an inexpesive choice that were meant to be compatible with other more expensive toy lines.

§§ Compatibility

Being in the 3¾ inch scale made **Laser Force** was compatible with other 1980s era &amp; 1970s area toy lines in the 3¾ inch scale, such as:

• **Adventure People** by Fisher Price //et al.//,
• **A-Team** by Galoob  //et al.//,
• **Black Hole** by Mego //et al.//,
• **Buck Rogers** by Mego //et al.//,
• **CHiPs** by Mego //et al.//,
• **Dukes of Hazzard** by Mego //et al.//,
• **G.I. Joe** by Hasbro //et al.//,
• **Metal-Man** by Zee Toys, Zylmex, //et al.//,
• **Micronauts** by Mego //et al.//,
• **Pocket Super Heroes** by Mego  //et al.//,
• **Star Wars** by Kenner //et al.//,
• etc.

One can speculate that this may have been the intent of **Laser Force**'s creators.
That they were making (toy) **vehicles** to be used with other toy lines made by others.

§§ Laser Force Vehicles

As far as I can (currently) tell
—

**Laser Force** had only 4 (toy) vehciles:

• the **Laser Craft**,
• the **Laser Plane**,
• the **Moon Rover**, and
• the **Space Boat**.

Although there were multiple variants of each **Laser Force** (toy) vehicle.

The body of each **Laser Force** (toy) vehicle could be a different color.
The 3 different color versions for the body are:

• **grey**,
• **gold**, and
• **light tan**.

In addition to this, the windows of the **Laser Force** (toy) vehicles could also be a different (transparent) color.
Each version varied by color.
The 4 different color versions for the body are:

• **(transparent) light blue**,
• **(transparent) orange**,
• **(transparent) red**, and
• **(transparent) very dark grey**.

⁁ laser-force/v76fqtprpuq71.jpeg
Photo of vintage Laser Force toys.
In photo —
the top row has 3 different variants of the **Laser Plane**,
the middle row has 4 different variants of the **Laser Craft**,
the bottom-left has 1 **Moon Rover**,
the bottom-right has 1 **Space Boat**,
leaning against the **Moon Rover** is the black version of the action figure, and
leaning against the **Space Boat** is the grey version of the action figure.
The photo was posted on posted by (reddit user) "MrPNGuin" on reddit ( https:/((/))www.reddit.com/r/nostalgia/comments/pz9ir6/anyone_else_have_laser_force_toys_i_had_the_jet/ );
but (reddit user) "vintagetoystuff" claimed it was his photo.

§§ Corporation

**Laser Force** was created, by people, through the company which is today known as — **American Plastic Toys Inc.**

Although “**American Plastic Toys Inc.**” was not the company's original name.
The company's previously was named — **Gay Toys Inc.**

Why the name change‽ —

This is speculation, but the common meaning for the word “gay” used to be —

gay (adjective): joyous, joyful, happy.

It is likely that this is the meaning for the word “gay” that the previous company name (“**Gay Toys Inc.**”) was derived from.

Most people nowadays aren't aware of this meaning for the word “gay”.
And would probably assume a company named “Gay Toys Inc.” makes sex-toys (rather than children's toys) which could be why the company changed its name.
The company makes childrens' toys, and may not have wanted to connote anything sexual (as it violates common taboos in common contemporary North American culture).

**Laser Force** toys seemed to be released both when the company was called ‘**Gay Toys Inc.**’, and when the company was called ‘**American Plastic Toys Inc.**’.
